- [Instructor] To help manage the complexities
of service-to-service communication inside
of a microservice-based system,
we can use a platform known as a service mesh.
When using a service mesh, there are a few prerequisites.
Your microservices must run in containers,
with Docker pretty much being the standard these days.
They must also be deployed
in a container orchestration system like Kubernetes.
You can find many vendors that package a container runtime
in container orchestrator,
or you can leverage the open source distributions
of these platforms.
Once you satisfy these prerequisites,
you can use a security mesh to establish a network
of proxies that sit next to the containers
that host your microservices.
These proxies, known as sidecars,
intercept the traffic entering and exiting a service,
providing an excellent point to apply security tactics,
like mutual TLS, access policies, and audit logging.
As more instances of a microservice are deployed,
so are the proxies that sit alongside them.
This begins to form an interconnected service mesh.
The mesh is transparent to microservices
because it runs a proxy in a container
that shares the same pod
as the container running our service.
The fabric formed by the mesh delivers an excellent strategy
for managing and controlling the operations
of the microservice deployment
by intercepting the traffic between them.
If we inspect the high level architecture
of Istio, a popular security mesh provided by Google,
we'll find that it splits logically into a data plane
and a control plane.
The data plane contains the set of proxies
that microservices use to communicate with each other inside
of the service mesh.
The policies and configuration of the proxies
in the mesh is managed, configured, and deployed
by the control plane.
Using a component known as Pilot,
the control plane is able to push these policies
and configurations to the proxies inside the mesh
without any code changes to the actual microservices.
The policies can define authorization roles enforced
by the proxies.
These policies can range from very high level,
such as which services are permitted
to communicate with each other to very low level,
such as requiring claims on a jot
that is passed to a service.
We can combine these authorization strategies
with other security tactics
to create a deep defense in-depth strategy
for our microservices.
In addition to receiving policies,
the proxies can also extract information,
such as traces or logs from the mesh
into a logging platform.
Istio's tracing capabilities increase the observability
of our microservices.
It allows them to be better monitored.
Istio's tracing capabilities increase the observability
of our microservices to allow them
to be better monitored.
Request tracing within Istio uses a quest ID
and a trace ID header that allows individual requests
to be monitored as they are flow through each service
in the mesh.
These headers can be extracted
and used as a correlation ID in our microservice logs.
Istio also has its own internal access logging
that allows for detailed auditing
of network transactions that can be visualized
in order to see the path a request takes through our system.
One of the major benefits of Istio is
that it provides mutual TLS with just a little bit
of configuration, right out of the box.
Istio bundles a certificate authority named Citadel
into the control plane that has extensive functionality.
Citadel can mount the certificate and key pair
into a Kubernetes pod when it's created.
It's also capable of automating the rotation
of certificates within the pods.
Using Citadel, you get mutual TLS
with only a little configuration,
and that's a lot of value and security
for your microservices.
A service mesh in general provides a wealth
of features that make management
of service-to-service communication less daunting
and more secure.
If you're considering tactics, like mutual TLS,
it's a great option to consider.
Service meshes are also relatively new,
so as innovations arise, they're likely
to play a greater role in microservice architectures.